                             ZLT13.DOC
                 Documentation for ZLT, version 1.3
                      5 Nov 89 by Carson Wilson

			1.  USAGE.
			2.  INSTALLATION.	


1.  USAGE.

ZLT (Z-system Library Typer) will type crunched, squeezed, 
LZH-encoded, or normal text files or library members.  ZCPR3.3 or 
better is required.  ZLT is not limited to typing one file at a 
time, and may be instructed to display all files or library members 
matching an ambiguous file specification (using "?" or "*").  If the 
wheel byte is reset (zeroed), only files in the current directory 
may be accessed.  If the wheel byte is set (to an non-zero value, 
usually 1 hex), any file or files may be typed, and ZLT recognizes 
Z-System named directories.  As installed, files with certain 
extensions (.COM, etc.) may not be displayed by any user (see below).

Optionally, all users can specify quiet operation, intercharacter 
delay, and/or paging control as the third command line parameter, 
with or without a leading slash ("/") before the option.  While a 
file is being displayed, the user can strike a digit (0..9) to 
control the display speed, or ^K, K, k, ^C, C, or c to cancel the 
display.  Control-Z turns off page pausing (use ^Z again to turn it 
back on), and control-X causes ZLT to skip to the next file in the 
series, if more than one file was matched, or abort if only one file 
was being displayed.  In addition, at each page pause, the SPACE bar 
turns up one line instead of a whole page (hit any other non-abort 
character to turn up the next page).

Help command:
     ZLT //

Wheel usage:
     ZLT [dir:]afn [. [/]options]
     ZLT [dir:]libname afn [[/]options]

Non Wheel usage:
     ZLT afn [. /options]
     ZLT libname afn [/options]

Options:
     0..9 set intercharacter delay
     Q - quiet operation
     P - paging


2.  INSTALLATION.

No installation is required under ZCPR, however, you may choose to 
further customize your copy of ZLT by using ZCNFG on ZLT.  To 
configure ZLT with ZCNFG.COM, place ZLT13.COM, ZLT13.CFG, and 
ZCNFG.COM in the same directory and type "ZCNFG ZLT13".  ZCNFG will 
provide you with several installation menus.
