
                             CONCAT
                           Version 0.3

                          Gene Pizzetta
                       September 19, 1989


CONCAT concatenates two or more source files into a destination 
file, similar to PIP.  For ZCPR3 only.

USAGE:

     CONCAT {dir:}outfile={dir:}infile{,{dir:}infile{, ...}} {/option}

Any file without a DU or DIR specification is assumed to be on 
the current drive/user.  The default is text file mode, checking 
for a CP/M end-of-file character (^Z).  The only option at 
present is 'O', which puts CONCAT is object file mode so ^Z's are 
ignored.

CONCAT requires an output file and at least one input file.  
Actually, it can be used as a simple file-copy utility, but 
that's not its purpose.  The same filename may be given 
repeatedly in the input file list.  An equal sign separates the 
output file from the input files.  Commas separate multiple input 
files.

While the equal sign and commas are required, they may be 
separated from the filenames by one or more spaces.  For example,
     concat newfile.txt=file1.txt,file2.txt,file3.txt,file4,txt
works the same as
     concat newfile.txt = file1.txt, file2.txt ,file3.txt , file4.txt

A filename cannot begin with a slash unless it is preceded by a 
DU or DIR specification.

If an error occurs, such as an input file not found, the 
incomplete output file is erased.  If another file has the same 
name as the output file, it will be renamed to filetype BAK.  
CONCAT initially creates the output file with a filetype of $$$.  
Any existing BAK is erased, the new BAK file created, and the 
output file renamed to the correct filetype after the copy is 
successfully completed.

An invalid option (anything other than "O") will be ignored.

To report bugs or make suggestions:
                         Gene Pizzetta
                         481 Revere Street
                         Revere, MA 02151

                         Newton Centre Z-Node:  (617) 965-7259
                         Lilliput Z-Node:  (312) 649-1730
                         Voice:  (617) 284-0891
