
            Enhancements to the ZCPR 3.4 Resident Command Package
                        June 17, 1988 by Carson Wilson

The following is a description of the functional enhancements I and others 
have made since Z33RCP02.LBR by Jay Sage.  Almost all commands have been 
either functionally enhanced or improved in performance.

Enhancements Pertaining to Several Commands:
-------------------------------------------
All RCP commands which reference directories automatically adjust to whatever 
directory security is enabled in the CPR.  So, for example, a SYSOP can use 
the same 'D' command in both private and public applications.  References to 
directories or drive/user combinations which are wheel-protected will generate 
an error under the 'D' command when the wheel byte is off.  The same is true 
of 'REN', 'CP', 'LIST', 'R', 'S', 'PROT', and 'ERA'. 

Most RCP errors now invoke the error handler, if installed, sending it the 
appropriate error value.  For example, 'P', 'POKE', 'PORT', and 'REG' will 
chain to the error handler with error 9 (bad numerical value) if a character 
is entered instead of a number by mistake.  See below for other command 
errors.  If no error handler is installed, the command is simply echoed back 
to the screen by the CPR, followed by a question mark, a la CP/M.

The ERA and D commands will not chain to the error handler if files are not 
found.  Rather, they continue to display a short "No files" message as in 
previous RCPs.  My reason for this is so that commands like "ERA *.BAK" or "D 
*.DOC" can still be used efficiently.

Commands such as 'D', 'PROT', and 'REN' which produce sorted lists of files 
now operate somewhat faster on lists of files due to increased sorting speed.

Code for many commands and routines has been reduced, allowing either more 
commands or more sophisticated versions of commands to be used within the same 
memory space.


Enhancements Pertaining to Specific Commands:
--------------------------------------------
(Selectable = may be deselected at assembly time)

Cmnd Selectable	Enhancement(s):
---- ----------	--------------------------------------------------------------
CLS		- Echoes a carriage return and line feed instead of "No TCAP"
		  message if Terminal Capability is not installed.  This 
		  reduces code and allows TYPE to chain to CLS without 
		  confusion.

CP	*	- Copies files from left to right, e.g., "cp source dest," and
		  allows "cp source" form.
	*	- "cp dest=source" also allowed for backward compatibility.
	*	- Copies datestamp (create and last modify) with file under
		  ZSDOS/ZDDOS and DosDisk.
		- Uses "Set DMA" call to eliminate buffer swapping.
		- Error handler invoked if:
			- file not found
			- filespec ambiguous
			- bad directory specification
			- disk or directory full (or write error)
			- duplicate file specifications (error #16)

D	       - If WIDE is true, files are displayed 5 across without
		 fences.
	       - Error handler invoked if:
			- bad directory specification
			- TPA overflow

ECHO		- %P and %C parameters toggle printer on/off correctly.

ERA		- Any character given after the file specification invokes 
		  inspection mode.
		- Error handler invoked if:
			- bad directory specification
			- TPA overflow

H		- Gets addresses of FCP and CCP from the environment
		  descriptor, allowing their addresses to be changed 
		  dynamically.

LIST            - "LIST<cr>" sends form feed to printer.
		- Error handler invoked if:
			- file(s) not found
			- bad directory specification
			- TPA overflow

NOTE		- No changes.

P		- If peekhdr is true, an address header is also given for the 
		  ASCII portion of the display.
	*	- One record is displayed at a time instead of one page.  This 
		  makes comparing two regions of memory easier.
		- Error handler invoked if numeric error.

POKE		- Error handler invoked if numeric error or no arguments.

PORT		- Error handler invoked if numeric error.
		- Compatible with 16-bit I/O addressing.

PROT            - Added 'A' parameter to alter file Archive attribute.
		- Error handler invoked if:
			- file(s) not found
			- TPA overflow
			- bad directory specification

Q		- New command.  Sets, resets, or displays Quiet flag (see help 
		  file for usage).

R		- Resets only one disk at a time under ZSDOS.
	*	- Gives space message after resetting.
		- Error handler invoked if bad directory specification
		- Automatically resets all "fast relog" disks under ZSDOS.

REG		- Error handler invoked if numeric error.
		- Now treats the program error byte as register "E".
		- Numbers now range from 0 to 31, although only the first
		    ten are displayed with "REG D".
		  Forms:
			REG D or REG	- Display 1st 10 register values
			REG Mreg	- Decrement register value
			REG Preg	- Increment register value
			REG Sreg value	- Set register value
			REG reg 	- Display a single register value

REN	*	- Renames files from left to right, e.g., "REN oldname newname"
	*	- "REN newname=oldname" is also allowed for backward 
		  compatability.
		- The directory specification may be given with either the old 
		  or the new filename.  If two directory specifications are 
		  given by mistake, the one associated with the old file name 
		  is used.
		    Examples:
				REN a0:oldname b1:newname
				  renames to a0:oldname to newname
				REN oldname b1:newname
				  renames b1:oldname to newname
				REN root:newname=work:oldname
				  renames work:oldname to newname
		- Error handler invoked if:
			- file not found
			- file specification ambiguous
			- bad directory specification

S		- Error handler invoked if illegal directory specification.
		- Works with CP/M Plus.

TYPE	*	- Screen clears between pages of output if CLS command is
		  active.
		- ^C aborts at end of line/record only to speed output.
		- The "Typing " prompt appears only after the screen has filled, 
		  instead of for every new file.
		- While typing files, control-Z switches paging to 
                  non-default mode.
		- Screen size for paging is taken from the current
		  environment descriptor, rather than being hard-coded, to
		  support different terminals.
		- Error handler invoked if:
			- file(s) not found
			- bad directory specification
			- TPA overflow

TST		- Command removed.  M80/L80 error checking may be performed
                  via ARUNZ's $M parameter.

WHL		- Error handler invoked if bad password.
		- Replaces WHLQ command.
		  Usage:
			WHL		- Report wheel status.
			WHL password	- Turn wheel ON if password correct,
					  turn wheel OFF if not.

WHLQ		- The WHLQ command no longer implemented.
