                  Instructions for FOR-SUPP.LBR
                            5 Aug 87
                        by Carson Wilson


1.  PURPOSE

     This collection of files is intended to take file 
descriptions on ZCPR33-based BBS's and personal ZCPR33 systems to 
new heights.  It is the first endeavor I know of to attempt to 
integrate FOR.COM and KFOR.COM with the Z-System.

     With phone costs what they are and the need to keep systems 
open to callers, current BBS search utilities need improving.  My 
ultimate hope in creating FORZ.COM, KFORZ.COM, and CLEANFOR.COM 
is to enable SysOps to easily keep FOR descriptions of all files 
online.

     Of course, this scenario demands a lot of hard work from 
SysOps.  They must keep an updated FOR listing for all files 
online--no easy task for one with many megabytes of files to 
describe.  There is also the problem of FOR.COM's method of 
filing descriptions.  The FOR file is simply a text file.  While 
this makes for convenient editing with a word processor, access 
time for a very long (say, 100k or so) FOR file may prove 
impractical.

     Nonetheless, "Half a loaf is better than none."  FOR- 
SUPP.LBR is my attempt to make FOR as workable as possible.


2.  FILES

     The library includes source as well as compiled code for the 
following programs:

FORZ.COM - 
     A version of Irv Hoff's FOR.COM adapted for use with ZCPR- 
     based systems.  Sets the ZCPR program error flag if a file 
     specified at the command line was not listed, or FOR file 
     not found, and resets the error flag otherwise.  Unlike 
     FOR.COM, can be used with ZCPR's GO command.  Operates 
     quietly if QUIET flag in ZCPR environment set (for use under 
     shells).  Responds to '//' or '/' help commands.

KFORZ.COM -
     Similarly adapted version of KFOR.COM.  In its present 
     compiled form, this program works with ZCPR versions 3.3 and 
     above ONLY.  MAIN FEATURE - takes a command line tail of up 
     to 32 characters as the name of the file to be described.  
     This allows automated running from shells such as ZFILER.  
     Loads at 1000 hex so that FORZ.COM can be rerun with GO 
     command even after running KFORZ.COM.

CLEANFOR.COM - 
     Turbo Pascal program which removes unmatched references from 
     the FOR file.

ZFILER.CMD - 
     Special ZFILER macros for version 1.0F of ZFILER.COM which 
     combine FORZ.COM and KFORZ.COM into an integrated program 
     which can be used to automatically check and add FOR 
     descriptions of files.


3.  INSTALLATION

     All three programs above can be installed to match the 
particulars  of individual systems.  If you keep your FOR file 
on drive A14: (the default), you needn't install FORZ.COM of 
KFORZ.COM.  Otherwise, using DDT, EDFILE, or ZPATCH, change the 
bytes following the [CONFIG> label at the beginnings of these 
files to match your system.  The values are currently <41> <0E> 
for <'A'> <14d>.

     CLEANFOR was written entirely by Carson Wilson in Turbo 
Pascal, and needs to be installed for your terminal by extracting 
CLEANFOR.COM, PDTINS.CHN and PDTINS.DTA to the current drive, 
then typing "CLEANFOR INSTALL" at the command line.  CLEANFOR 
searches through all user ares of a user-installable sequence of 
disk drives.  This list starts just after 2100 hex in 
CLEANFOR.COM, after the label "[DRIVES>."  It begins with a hex 
value from 01 hex to 0F hex, which gives the length of the 
sequence of drives.  This number is immediately followed by a 
list of up to 15 capital letters.  The current sequence is 
5,'A','B','C','D','E'.

     Since CLEANFOR quits as soon as all FOR references have been 
matched, you should specify these letters in order from the drive 
CLEANFOR is most likely to find files matching the FOR listing 
to the drive least likely to contain these files.  Next, install 
CLEANFOR.COM as for FORZ.COM above if you use a non-default 
directory for your FOR file.  The [CONFIG> label in CLEANFOR.COM 
is found at 2100 hex.


4.  USAGE

     To use the files, place FORZ.COM, KFORZ.COM, and ZFILER.CMD 
along your search path.  You may now use ZFILER to check and add 
FOR descriptions in any directory by pointing to the filename and 
typing ESC-K to add a description (automatically aborts if there 
is already a description) or ESC-W to view a description 
(asks you to add one if none is found).  Because FORZ may be 
rerun with ZCPR's GO command, and KFORZ loads at 1000h under 
ZCPR33, both of these macros run efficiently as "group macros" 
using ZFILER version 1.0F.

     CLEANFOR is very cautious about modifying and deleting 
files.  It has a built-in ZCPR-like usage message, and aborts 
safely with error messages if short of disk space or if files are 
missing.  The original FOR file is not modified until an explicit 
command is given to do so; aborting at any previous time will not 
affect this file.  If the user instructs CLEANFOR to modify the 
FOR file, a new file is created containing the modifications and 
the original file is renamed to FOR.BAK.  In addition, CLEANFOR 
gives the user a running account, displaying unmatched FOR 
descriptions as it goes, and listing the names of matched files 
along with the directories they were found on.

     When CLEANFOR has finished searching for matches, a summary 
of total, matched, and unmatched entries is displayed before the 
user is asked whether or not to alter the FOR listing.  If all 
entries were matched, CLEANFOR automatically aborts without 
changing any files.


5.  COMMENTS

     Your comments are greatly appreciated.  Please address any 
suggestions, problems, or comments regarding FOR-SUPP.LBR to:

     Carson Wilson
     Lillipute Z-Nodes, Chicago
     312-664-1730 or 312-649-1730
     24 hours, 8-1-No Parity, 300-1200-2400 baud
