
			  L * U * S * H

		      Library Utility Shell

		 For ZCPR Versions 3.3 and Above

			   Version 1.0

		01 December 1987 by Carson Wilson



			    Contents
			    --------

		1. Description

		2. System Requirements

		3. Installation

		4. Usage
			1. Internal commands
			2. External commands
			3. Parsed commands
			4. Hybrid commands -- KMD and XMODEM

		5. Files included

		6. Assembly

		7. Inquiries



1.  Description

LUSH is a minimal ZCPR shell which takes advantage of the
extended CCP services of ZCPR version 3.3.  This allows both
reduced program size (making for a faster shell) and enhanced
security.  Since ZCPR itself, and not LUSH, parses DU and
directory specifications used by the program, LUSH automatically
adjusts to whatever security levels are present in the current
ZCPR system.  This means that the same program can be used by
both secure and private systems without installation.

LUSH contains only three internal commands: LUSH, HELP and DIR.
All other commands are sent to ZCPR as is, with the option of
prepending the current library's drive, user, and name as the
first command parameter.  Therefore, LUSH automatically installs
for library-oriented programs such as LBRE, LPUT, LT, and TYPELZ
which accept library names as the first command line parameter.


2.  System Requirements

LUSH will only operate on ZCPR systems with a version of 3.3 or
higher.  Further, LUSH requires that the ZCPR system includes a
shell stack with entries of at least 32 bytes each (standard
size), and an external FCB.  If any of these conditions are not
met, LUSH aborts with the appropriate error message.


3.  Installation

No installation is necessary.


4.  Usage

4.1  Internal commands

LUSH operates in several modes.  Simplest is the internal command
mode.  If the commands HELP, ?, DIR, or LUSH are used at LUSH's
command prompt, they call up procedures built into LUSH itself.
These commands work as follows:

Command 			Result
------- 			------
>HELP or ?. . . . . . . . . . . Display help screen
>DIR [afn]. . . . . . . . . . . Display this library's directory
>LUSH [du:|dir:]ufn[.LBR] . . . Attach to another library file


4.2  External commands

The second type of LUSH command begins with a leading space, and
instructs LUSH to send the command verbatim to ZCPR.  Thus:

Command 			Result
------- 			------
> command [parameters]. . . . . command [parameters]

When ZCPR has completed processing the command, ZCPR reloads LUSH
using the program name, ZCPR directory, and library name LUSH was
originally invoked with.


4.3  Parsed commands

The third type of LUSH command begins without a leading space.
This is where LUSH performs its most important function--that of
parsing the drive, user, and name of the current library file as
the first parameter of any ZCPR command line.  This allows LUSH
to work as a "front end" for the various library utilities which
accept the first command line parameter as a designation of the
library file on which to operate.  Thus, if LUSH were attached to
LUSH10.LBR at directory B0:,

Command 			Result
------- 			------
>command [parameters] . . . . . command B0:LUSH10.LBR [parameters]

Again, when ZCPR has completed processing the command, ZCPR
reloads LUSH using the program name, ZCPR directory, and library
name LUSH was originally invoked with.


4.4  Hybrid commands -- KMD and XMODEM

The fourth and final type of LUSH command is a hybrid between
internal and external commands.  If the KMD or XMODEM commands
are given _without_ a leading space, LUSH parses them as follows:

Command 			Result
------- 			------

>KMD|XMODEM S[K] ufn. . . . . . Send a member of this library

Thus, if LUSH were attached to LUSH10.LBR at directory B0:, and
the command was "KMD SK THIS.FIL", LUSH would send the command
"KMD LK B0:LUSH10.LBR THIS.FIL" to ZCPR.

KMD and XMODEM are external commands in the sense that no command
processing is done by LUSH--it merely sends a command line to
ZCPR.  But they are internal commands in the sense that they are
dedicated commands.  Only the commands "KMD" and "XMODEM" will be
parsed with L or LK as the first parameter, and only "KMD" or
"XMODEM" will be sent as the command name to ZCPR.  Therefore,
for use with RCPM systems, a program with the exact name XMODEM
or KMD must be available for sending files.


5.  Files included

Files included in LUSH10.LBR are as follows:

LUSH10.DOC	This file
LUSH10.FOR	Short description
LUSH.Z80	Program source code
LUSH.COM	Object code which loads at 100 hex
LUSH8000.COM	Object code which loads at 8000 hex
SLUDIR11.REL	Correction to SYSLIB's SLUDIR module

LUSH.COM loads at 100 hex, allowing ZCPR's GO command to be used
with LUSH.COM.	LUSH8000.COM loads at 8000 hex, allowing the GO
command to be used on other programs from within LUSH8000.COM.


6.  Assembly

LUSH was assembled using Z80ASM.COM and SLRNK.COM by SLR Systems,
the latest versions of the ZCPR Z33LIB, Z3LIB, and SYSLIB
linkable libraries, and SLUDIR11.REL, which supercedes the SYSLIB
module SLUDIR.

To test modifications to LUSH.COM, comment out the ".dseg"
pseudo-op near the end of the file, and remove the semicolon from
the ".request" comment at the beginning of the code and link the
file as one absolute segment.  When through testing, return these
to the original state and link using code and data segments for
smallest code size.


7.  Inquiries

Please address any comments or inquiries regarding LUSH10.LBR to:

			  Carson Wilson
		 Lillipute Z-Nodes, Chicago, IL
	  24 hours - 300/1200/2400 baud - 8/1/No parity
		  312-664-1730 and 312-649-1730

