;=================================================================
	title VLU Video	Library	Utility	for Z33
	subttl configuration overlay for 1.07

;Standard z33 header

	org	100h

	ds	3
	db	'Z3ENV'
	db	1
	dw	0e050h		;address of z3: environment
	ds	2
$memry	ds	2		;for those who must

;Where prompts are involved, Not Zero turns the prompt on.

sysflag	db	0ffh		;0=display sys'd files
ldr16	db	0ffh		;0=crunch system segments, else prompt
autocr	db	0h		;0=auto load to lbr, else prompt
asis	db	0ffh		;0=auto load to lbr as is, else auto crunch
dskdel	db	0ffh		;0=auto delete, else prompt single files
lbrdel	db	0ffh		;0=auto delete, else prompt lbr members
grpdel	db	0ffh		;0=auto delete, else prompt for group
dson	db	0ffh		;0=do not transfer datestamps to new file
wboot	db	0ffh		;0=warm boot on exit
nosave	db	0ffh		;0=discard 'not smaller' files, else prompt
altdu	db	0ffh		;0=un/crunch to current du, else prompt

badfor	db	'FOR','CIM'	;file extents not to crunch
	db	0		;terminator


	 if 0

SYSFLAG controls the display of files whose system bit is set.  
Zero value in this location will display such files, any other 
value will suppress their display.

LDR16 was added in order to accommodate LDR v1.6.  This version of 
LDR allows all ZCPR3 system segments to be packed into a single 
library, saving disk and directory space.  If LDR16 is of zero 
value, all system segments will be crunched according to the rules 
governing other files.  If the user wishes to be prompted when a 
system segment is detected--given the option of crunching or not-- 
LDR16 should be not zero.

AUTOCR controls a prompt in the library building routines.  If 
this byte is not zero, the user will always be prompted before a 
file is crunched.  This gives the opportunity to load uncompressed 
files to the library.  ASIS is dependent on AUTOCR.  If AUTOCR is 
zero, there will be no prompt and all files will be loaded to the 
library on direction of ASIS.  If ASIS is zero, all files will be 
loaded sic; if not zero, files which have passed VLU's other 
criteria will be crunched.  ASIS has no effect if AUTOCR is not 
zero.

DSKDEL controls the prompt for deleting disk files.  Zero in this 
location will automatically delete disk files in response to the 
Delete command or so that the file may be overwritten.  LBRDEL 
performs the same function for deleting/overwriting library 
members.  GRPDEL controls delete/overwrite for group operations.  
In all of these, not zero will cause VLU to prompt before taking 
action; in all of these, "prompt" is the default as distributed.

DSON controls the transfer of datestamps.  In some instances, it 
may be desirable not to transfer datestamps from a library to a 
disk or vice versa.  Zero in this location will effectively 
disable datestamping (though datestamps will still be displayed).

WBOOT controls the style of exit.  Zero in this location causes a 
warm boot on exit.  Default is not zero: return to CCP on exit.

NOSAVE controls the prompt to save files which have not been 
reduced by crunching.  If this byte is zero, a file which is not 
smaller after crunching will automatically be discarded.  The 
default as distributed is not zero, which will cause VLU to prompt 
before discarding the file.

ALTDU controls the prompt for alternate du:|dir: when crunching or 
uncrunching a disk file.  This prompt will not appear when working 
with library files (you must log into the desired directory before 
un/crunching a library member).  When un/crunching disk files, 
however, it may be desirable to specify another directory for the 
output.  Not zero in this location will supply a prompt; zero will 
defeat the prompt (it may be re-enabled temporarily from the menu).

Following the ten configuration bytes, note the two file extents 
FOR and CIM.  This location contains a list of filetypes which the 
user does not wish to be crunched in building a library.  More 
filetypes may be patched into this list; the list must be 
terminated by a null.

Most, if not all, of the configuration bytes may be toggled from 
VLU's menu.

	 endif ;0

;Copyright 1988, Esoteric Software



